ONE



I have a CrewAI system that uses RAG with vector database (ChromaDB). The RAG gives the insight and then the CrewAI Agents act in a Context Augmentation Generation manner to give an in depth insight. I want to extend it to search for items in a SQL database. For example, I have a restaurant with menus. User can ask if the restaurant sells pizza. My idea is that the pizzas are in a "pizza menu" that describes the company approach and philosophy of pizza. The actual pizzas will be stored in a relational database such as Postgres. 

So the "customer" will ask what kind of pizzas do you have which a vegetarian would enjoy. The app should extol the virtues of the vegetarian pizzas (information from the company documents that have been stashed in the vector DB) and suggest drinks to go with them. Importantly it should get the prices from the relational SQL database. 

Give me your thoughts on how we achieve this. 







Here's a detailed breakdown of how to extend your CrewAI system to search a SQL database, incorporating your RAG and Context Augmentation Generation approach, with specific examples for your restaurant scenario:

Core Idea & Architecture

Your core idea is sound:
RAG (Vector DB): For conceptual, descriptive, and philosophical information (e.g., company approach to pizza, virtues of vegetarian pizzas).
SQL DB: For structured, granular data (e.g., specific pizza names, ingredients, prices, availability).
CrewAI Agents: To orchestrate the information retrieval, synthesize insights from both sources, and generate a comprehensive, contextually rich response.

How to Achieve This: Step-by-Step

Here's a conceptual and practical guide:
1. Data Preparation & Storage:
Vector Database (ChromaDB):
Content: Company philosophy documents, detailed descriptions of menu categories (e.g., "pizza menu" describing your approach to pizza, "vegetarian options" describing their benefits), information on drink pairings, general restaurant FAQs, etc.
Ingestion: Ensure these documents are chunked appropriately for effective retrieval.
SQL Database (Postgres):
Schema: Design a schema that makes sense for your menu. Example tables:
pizzas: pizza_id (PK), name, description, price, is_vegetarian, is_vegan, is_gluten_free, image_url
drinks: drink_id (PK), name, description, price, type (e.g., 'soft', 'alcoholic', 'wine')
pizza_ingredients: pizza_id (FK), ingredient_id (FK), quantity
ingredients: ingredient_id (PK), name, allergens
Data Population: Populate with your actual menu items, prices, and attributes.
2. CrewAI Agent Roles & Responsibilities:
You'll likely need specialized agents within your CrewAI system:
QueryRouterAgent / IntentClassifierAgent:
Role: The initial point of contact. Analyzes the user's query to determine if it requires:
Pure RAG (e.g., "Tell me about your restaurant's philosophy").
Pure SQL (e.g., "What's the price of a Margherita pizza?").
Both (e.g., "What kind of vegetarian pizzas do you have, and how much do they cost?").
Tools:
LLM Tool: For intent classification. Can be fine-tuned or prompted to recognize keywords/phrases indicating a need for structured data.
Optional: A small, pre-trained classification model for speed.
VectorDBQueryAgent (RAG Agent):
Role: Interacts with ChromaDB to retrieve conceptual and descriptive information.
Tools:
ChromaDBRetrieverTool: Takes a natural language query, performs a vector similarity search, and returns relevant document chunks.
SQLQueryAgent:
Role: Formulates and executes SQL queries based on the user's intent and identified entities.
Tools:
SQLDatabaseTool: A custom tool that takes a natural language description of data needed (or even a partial SQL query) and translates it into a full SQL query, then executes it against Postgres.
Key Challenge: Translating natural language into accurate SQL. This can be achieved using:
LLM for SQL Generation: The most flexible approach. Prompt an LLM (e.g., GPT-4, Llama 3) with the user's intent and your database schema to generate the SQL query. You'll need good prompt engineering and possibly a few-shot examples.
Pre-defined SQL Templates: For common queries (e.g., "get all vegetarian pizzas," "get price of X"). Less flexible but more reliable.
Hybrid: LLM for complex queries, templates for simple ones.
DatabaseConnectionPool: Manages connections to your Postgres database.
ResponseSynthesisAgent / ContextAugmentationAgent:
Role: Takes the information from the VectorDBQueryAgent and the SQLQueryAgent, synthesizes it, and crafts the final, in-depth, contextually augmented response.
Tools:
LLM Tool: To perform the synthesis, add the "virtues," suggest drinks, and present the information coherently.
3. CrewAI Task Flow Example ("What kind of vegetarian pizzas do you have which a vegetarian would enjoy?"):
User Input: "What kind of vegetarian pizzas do you have which a vegetarian would enjoy? How much are they?"
QueryRouterAgent (Task 1: Intent Classification):
Analyzes the query.
Identifies intent: "Get vegetarian pizzas," "Get prices," "Extol virtues," "Suggest drinks."
Determines need for both RAG (virtues, drinks) and SQL (pizza names, prices).
Passes relevant sub-queries/instructions to the next agents.
SQLQueryAgent (Task 2: Get Vegetarian Pizzas & Prices):
Input: "Find all vegetarian pizzas and their prices."
Tool Usage (SQLDatabaseTool):
LLM generates SQL: SELECT name, description, price FROM pizzas WHERE is_vegetarian = TRUE;
Executes query against Postgres.
Output: [{"name": "Margherita", "description": "Classic tomato and mozzarella", "price": 12.99}, {"name": "Funghi Delight", "description": "Mushrooms, truffle oil, mozzarella", "price": 14.50}, ...]
VectorDBQueryAgent (Task 3: Get Vegetarian Pizza Philosophy & Drink Pairings):
Input: "Information about vegetarian pizza philosophy" and "Drink pairings for vegetarian pizzas."
Tool Usage (ChromaDBRetrieverTool):
Performs similarity search in ChromaDB.
Output: "Our vegetarian pizzas are crafted with fresh, locally sourced vegetables...", "For our vegetarian pizzas, we recommend a crisp Sauvignon Blanc or a light craft ale." (relevant chunks).
ResponseSynthesisAgent (Task 4: Synthesize & Augment):
Input:
From SQLQueryAgent: Pizza names, descriptions, prices.
From VectorDBQueryAgent: Vegetarian pizza philosophy, drink pairings.
Original user query.
Tool Usage (LLM Tool):
Combines information: "Absolutely! For vegetarians, we offer exquisite options like our Margherita(classic tomato and mozzarella, $12.99) and the indulgent Funghi Delight (featuring earthy mushrooms and a hint of truffle oil, $14.50)."
Adds the RAG context: "Our vegetarian pizzas are a testament to our commitment to fresh, vibrant ingredients, designed to be both delicious and wholesome..."
Suggests drinks: "To perfectly complement these, we suggest a crisp Sauvignon Blanc or perhaps one of our refreshing local craft ales."
Ensures a natural, conversational tone.
4. Key Considerations & Challenges:
Natural Language to SQL (NL2SQL):
Complexity: This is the hardest part. LLMs are getting better, but they still make mistakes.
Schema Exposure: The LLM needs to know your database schema (table names, column names, relationships) to generate correct SQL. You'll need to provide this as part of the prompt (e.g., CREATE TABLEstatements or a concise description).
Safety & Security: Be extremely cautious about directly exposing your database to an LLM-generated query without validation. Implement:
Query Validation: Parse and validate the generated SQL to prevent malicious queries (e.g., DROP TABLE, DELETE FROM).
Role-Based Access Control (RBAC): Ensure the database user your system connects with has only the necessary SELECT permissions.
Rate Limiting: Prevent abuse.
Error Handling: What happens if the SQL query fails? What if no relevant documents are found in the vector DB? Your agents need robust error handling and fallback mechanisms.
Latency: Combining multiple queries (vector DB, SQL DB, LLM inference) can introduce latency. Optimize wherever possible (e.g., efficient vector indexing, optimized SQL queries, concurrent execution where appropriate).
Prompt Engineering: The quality of your agents' outputs heavily depends on well-crafted prompts. This is especially true for the SQLQueryAgent and ResponseSynthesisAgent.
Scalability: Consider how your system will scale as your menu and user base grow.
Cost: Running multiple LLM calls per query can be expensive. Evaluate costs for your chosen LLM providers.
5. Tools and Libraries:
CrewAI: For agent orchestration.
ChromaDB: Your chosen vector database.
LangChain / LlamaIndex: These frameworks provide excellent abstractions and tools for:
Connecting to ChromaDB.
Connecting to SQL databases (e.g., SQLDatabaseToolkit, SQLDatabaseChain).
NL2SQL capabilities.
Tool creation for CrewAI.
psycopg2 (Python): For direct Postgres interaction if you build custom tools.
Your chosen LLM API: OpenAI, Anthropic, Google Gemini, Hugging Face models, etc.
By carefully designing your agent roles, leveraging the strengths of both your vector and SQL databases, and implementing robust NL2SQL and synthesis logic, you can build a powerful and informative restaurant assistant.
