Would it be fair to describe what we have in the vector db as metadata? 







Show thinking

It's partially fair to describe what you have in the vector database as "metadata," but it's more accurate and comprehensive to consider it as semantic content represented by embeddings, often with associated metadata.
Here's why:
Core Function: The primary purpose of the vector database in RAG is to store vector embeddings of your raw data (text, images, audio, etc.). These embeddings are dense numerical representations that capture the semantic meaning and context of the original content. When you query the vector database, you're looking for content that is semantically similar to your query, not just exact keyword matches.   
Content vs. Metadata:
Content (what the embeddings represent): In your case, this is the "pizza menu" that describes the company's approach and philosophy, the virtues of vegetarian pizzas, suggested drink pairings, and any other descriptive, conceptual information. This is the primary data that the embeddings are derived from.
Metadata (additional descriptive information): Alongside the vector embeddings, vector databases often allow you to store actual metadata about the original document or chunk. This metadata helps refine searches, filter results, and provide additional context. Examples of metadata you could store in your vector DB include:   
document_title: "Pizza Philosophy Document"
category: "Menu Descriptions", "Company Values"
last_updated_date: "2024-06-01"
author: "Marketing Team"
tags: ["vegetarian", "pizza", "sustainability"]
How Metadata is Used in Vector Databases:
Filtering: You can use this associated metadata to filter your semantic searches. For example, "Find documents related to 'pizza' where the category is 'Company Values'." This combines semantic similarity with traditional filtering.  
Context: The metadata itself can provide valuable context to the retrieved chunks, helping your LLM understand what the retrieved information is about.  
In your scenario:
When you say "the pizzas are in a 'pizza menu' that describes the company approach and philosophy of pizza" and this is in the vector DB, that's not strictly "metadata" in the traditional sense of a small, descriptive tag. It's core content (the textual description) whose meaning is encoded as a vector.
However, you could also store metadata about that "pizza menu" document (e.g., document_type: "philosophy", cuisine_type: "Italian"), and that would be true metadata.
Conclusion:
While your vector database does store actual metadata alongside the embeddings, its primary role is to enable semantic search over your rich, descriptive content (like the company philosophy). The embeddings are derived from this content.


So, it's more accurate to say: "Our vector database stores semantic content (like our company philosophy and detailed descriptions) represented by vector embeddings, along with associated metadata for filtering and enhanced context."
